# CS678-Web-affordability
## Introduction
### Study context
E-governance is the integration of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) into the government system to make the working processes efficient, accessible, and convenient. [4] Pakistan has seen a rapid rise in the adoption and prevalence of e-government services in the past few years. To contextualize this development, Pakistan’s E-Government Development Index (EGDI) has risen from 0.25 in 2003 to 0.42 in 2022. [3] While the index value is significantly smaller than the world’s average of 0.61, it can be argued that Pakistan is a developing region faced with numerous hurdles, including the public’s capacity to operate technical websites, infrastructural limitations, a lack of awareness, and high data privacy and trust issues with the government. [5] Despite these challenges, digital government development trends in Pakistan indicate steady growth and improvement.
### Web Affordability
Previous work in the space of digital governance in the Pakistani region has focused on the user adoption of e-government services [5], the challenges of implementing e-government services [6], and citizens’ understanding and expectations of public e-government sites [7]. However, there has been no work that examines the web affordability of government public websites. A recent study by Qazi et al. highlighted the rising complexity of the Web, making affordability a big concern as it limits users’ access to Internet services. The study collected the sizes of landing pages of the Alexa top 100 websites from 8 developing countries with different average broadband prices and presented a new fairness metric for affordability (PAW). [1]
### Our contributions
Our research is an extension of Qazi et al. [1] work on web affordability and inclusion. We aim to study and evaluate the affordability of 100 e-government websites and present design implications in the present e-services that could increase web affordability in the region. Our key contributions will be:
Exploring the complexity of non-landing pages of public websites.
Identifying a set of metrics to characterize the complexity of websites.
Finding out features that make public websites sub-optimal and recommending design implications that could optimize website performance and user experience.
Comparing and contrasting the affordability of Pakistani public sites against the global dataset of public sites through an affordability metric.
